---
title: Medicines reconciliation for acute care admissions
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.5.html
summary: "Use case for medicines reconciliation for acute care admissions"
---

## Brief description
Upon admission to or attendance at hospital, the attending clinician is responsible for consolidating a list of the patient’s medications. Information on medications listed within the GP system (SCR) is gathered in paper format and then discussed with the patient/patient proxy for validation. Amendments, where required, are annotated on the paper copies. The clinician then manually transcribes all appropriate medications into the hospital Patient Administration System (PAS)/Electronic Patient Record (EPR) system and the patient’s paper drug chart before completing the admission/consultation process.

## Use case justification
Clinical and administration:
-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the opportunity for errors to occur.
-   Reduction in transcription between systems and paper to IT, leading to a reduction in prescribing errors.
-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting and collating information.
-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually updating IT systems.
-   Reducing the paper flow through departments by utilising the system workflow to manage tasks using staff time efficiently.

Patient-focused:
-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through the reduction of paper-based ‘patient identifiable documents’ in use within departments.
-   Increased patient/clinician time due to reduction in clinician time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the patient.
-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual transcription errors.
-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for information which should already be available to the clinician.

Cost reduction:
-   Reduction in printing supplies.

## Primary actors
-   Clinician
-   PAS/EPR
-   GP Connect
-   GP clinical system

## Secondary actors
-   Patient

## Triggers
-   Patient is admitted to or attends hospital for treatment.

## Preconditions
-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the hospitals PAS/EPR upon admission/attendance.
-   Hospital staff have the correct/appropriate system access rights.
-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP Connect.
-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed/used by hospital staff.
-   Electronic interactions between hospital system(s)/GP Connect/GP clinical system have been correctly configured.
-   An electronic prescribing and medicines administration (ePMA) system is in use and integrates with the PAS/EPR.

## Postconditions
-   **On success:**
    - Clinical information is imported and recorded against the local patient record.
-   **Guaranteed:**
    - A full history of medication used by the patient on admission/attendance:
      - Medication prescribed by the patient’s GP.
      - Medication prescribed in other care settings.
      - Medication obtained elsewhere – for example ‘over the counter’.
    - Patients receive the correct medications when admitted.

## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends/admitted to hospital.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Clinician identifies need to establish the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>Clinician accesses the hospital PAS/EPR system to retrieve GP medication history. PAS requests GP medication list from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests GP medication list from the GP clinical system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP clinical system provides the defined medication list to GP Connect.</p>
<p>This medication information will be the same as that provided in the SCR/SCR AI and will be subject to the same exclusion criteria:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Acute Medications (with a prescribed date in the last 12 months)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Prescribed date</p></li>
<li><p>Medication Item</p></li>
<li><p>Dosage Instructions (including day of administration where applicable)</p></li>
<li><p>Quantity</p></li>
<li><p>Source (the organisation that issued the prescription)</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Current Repeat Medications (with an end date in the future)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Last issued date</p></li>
<li><p>Medication Item</p></li>
<li><p>Dosage Instructions (including day of administration where applicable)</p></li>
<li><p>Quantity</p></li>
<li><p>Reason for medication</p></li>
<li><p>Source (the organisation that issued the prescription)</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Discontinued Repeat Medications (with an end date in the past and the last scripts prescribed date in the last six months)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Last Issued</p></li>
<li><p>Medication Item</p></li>
<li><p>Dosage Instructions (including days of administration where applicable)</p></li>
<li><p>Quantity</p></li>
<li><p>Reason for Medication</p></li>
<li><p>Date Discontinued</p></li>
<li><p>Source (the organisation that issued the prescription)</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>For all three categories above:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Include mixtures</p></li>
<li><p>Includes medications recorded on the GP record that were prescribed by another organisation (for example, a hospital).</p></li>
<li><p>Do not include medications where the script was cancelled before being prescribed (for example, entered in error).</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the GP medication list to the hospital PAS/EPR.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>PAS/EPR saves a copy of the GP medications list directly to PAS/EPR.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>PAS/EPR presents an integrated view of GP medications to the clinician for manipulation into the ePMA.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 9</td>
<td>Clinician reviews and verifies GP medication list with patient/patient proxy.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 10</td>
<td>Clinician marks medication for ‘Inclusion As-Is’ into the PAS/EPR.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 11</td>
<td>Medication is integrated into the PAS/EPR as ‘Medication on Arrival’.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 9a</td>
<td><p>This scenario details the situation where medications are identified in addition to those recorded within the GP Clinical System and are not present within the PAS / EPR Integrated View. This scenario includes items which may be ‘over the counter’ medications.</p>
<p>9A1. Clinician selects ‘Add New Medication’.</p>
<p>9A2. Clinician manually enters new medication details.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
    <td><strong>Exceptions</strong></td><td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 9b</td>
<td><p>This scenario details the situation where discrepancies are identified with one or more items of the patient’s medications recorded within the GP clinical system and are presented within the PAS/EPR integrated view but the medication is still in use.</p>
<p>9B1. Clinician marks medication for ‘Inclusion with Amendment’ into the PAS/EPR.</p>
<p>9B2. Clinician amends medication details.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 9c</td>
<td><p>This scenario details the situation where discrepancies are identified with one or more items of the patient’s medications recorded within the GP clinical system and are presented within the PAS/EPR integrated view but the medication is no longer in use.</p>
<p>9C1. Clinician marks medication as ‘Stopped’.</p>
<p>9C2. Clinician adds the reason for the medication being stopped.</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Original use case ##

This use case is a reformatted version of the [Medicines Reconciliation
Acute Care Admissions & Discharges](pages/accessrecord_structured/use_cases/original_use_case.docx) use case developed by North of England Commissioning Support.

