---
title: Community Nurse reviews the GP record when they visit a patient
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.8.html
summary: "Use case for community nurse reviews the GP record when they visit a patient"
---

## Use Case Name

Community Nurse reviews the GP record when they visit a patient.

## Brief Description

Either ahead of or during a visit a community nurse can review a
patient’s record

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Data can be formatted and filtered by the local system, so the
    clinician is presented the information they need in a suitable
    format.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Community Nurse

- Community System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- The community nurse is visiting or preparing to visit a patient.

## Pre-Conditions

-   The community nurse has the correct / appropriate system access
    rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by
    the community nurse.

-   Electronic Interactions between community system / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

    -   The community nurse can view the GP patient’s record and use it
        to assist in making clinical decision.

-   **Guaranteed:**

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best-case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Community Nurse visits or prepares to visit a patient.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Clinician identifies need to establish the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>Clinician accesses the community system to retrieve GP patient record history. The community system requests the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests GP patient record from the GP Clinical System.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Patient history</p></li>
<li><p>Palliative Care Register</p></li>
<li><p>Immunisations</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the GP patient record to the community system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The community system formats and filters the patient record so that the relevant information is clearly presented to the community nurse.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The community nurse uses of the information to support their appointment with the patient.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
