---
title: Dentist reviews the GP record when they treat a patient
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.9.html
summary: "Use case for dentist reviews the GP record when they treat a patient"
---

## Brief description
During an appointment the dentist can review relevant parts of a patient’s record to ensure their actions are clinically appropriate.

## Use case justification
Clinical and administration:
-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the opportunity for errors to occur.
-   Data can be formatted and filtered by the local system, so the clinician is presented the information they need in a suitable format.

Patient-focused:
-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through the reduction of paper-based ‘patient identifiable documents’ in use within departments.
-   Increased patient/clinician time due to reduction in clinician time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the patient.
-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary actors
-   Dentist
-   Dental system
-   GP Connect
-   GP clinical system

## Secondary actors
-   Patient

## Triggers
-   The patient attending a dental appointment.

## Preconditions
-   The dentist has the correct/appropriate system access rights.
-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP Connect.
-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed/used by the dentist.
-   Electronic interactions between dental system/GP Connect/GP clinical system have been correctly configured.

## Postconditions
-   **On success:**
    - The dentist can view the GP patient’s record and use it to assist in making clinical decision.

## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends a dental appointment.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Clinician identifies need to review relevant parts of the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>Clinician accesses the dental system to retrieve GP patient record history. The dental system requests the relevant parts of the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests the relevant parts of the GP patient record from the GP clinical system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP clinical system provides the relevant parts of the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
<li><p>Relevant conditions (for example, heart conditions)</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the relevant parts of the GP patient record to the dental system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The dental system formats and filters the patient record so that the relevant information is clearly presented to the dentist.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The dentist uses the information to support their treatment of the patient.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
