---
title: Import Patient Record for a private hospital
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.11.html
summary: "Use case for import patient record for a private hospital"
---

## Use case name


## Brief description


## Use case justification


## Primary actors


## Secondary actors


## Triggers


## Preconditions


## Postconditions

-   **On success**

-   **Guaranteed**


## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows






## Use Case Name

Import Patient Record for a private hospital.

## Brief Description

Upon admission to or attendance at a private hospital it is necessary to
record the patient’s current medications, allergies, diagnosis and
conditions on the local clinical system. This is currently very
difficult for private hospitals as they do not have access to NHS
systems such as the SCR.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in transcription between systems and paper to IT, leading
    to a reduction in prescribing errors.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments by utilising the systems
    workflow to manage tasks using staff time efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Clinician

- Hospital system

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- Patient is admitted to or attends a private hospital for treatment.

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the hospital
    system upon admission / attendance.

-   Hospital staff have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by
    hospital staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between Hospital System(s) / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   A full history of medications, allergies, diagnosis and
        conditions is recorded on the hospital system

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best-case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends/admitted to hospital.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Clinician identifies need to establish the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>Clinician accesses the hospital system to retrieve GP patient record history. CERNA requests the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests GP patient record from the GP Clinical System.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
<li><p>Diagnosis</p></li>
<li><p>Conditions</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the GP patient record to the hospital system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The hospital system saves a copy of the GP patient record directly.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The hospital system presents an integrated view of GP patient record to the clinician for review with the patient.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 9</td>
<td>Clinician reviews and updates GP patient record with Patient / Patient Proxy.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
