---
title: Referral to Single Point of Access for Mental Health
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.12.html
summary: "Use case for referral to single point of access for mental health"
---

## Use Case Name

Referral to Single Point of Access for Mental Health.

## Brief Description

A patient is referred for mental health treatment via a Single Point of
Access (SPA). Where the relevant patient information has not been
included with the referral form, the Single Point of Access Team will
have access to the patient’s GP record to ensure that the patient’s
history is included in the referral. This will save time and resources
of requesting this from the patient’s GP.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in time wasted, collecting and collating information.

-   Reduction in time wasted, manually updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments/organisations by
    utilising the systems workflow to manage tasks using staff time
    efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as there is less likely to be a delay in
    referral.

## Primary Actors

- Single Point of Access (SPA) Team

- PARIS System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System.

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- Patient is referred to Mental health services using the Single Point of Access services and the relevant patient information has not been included in the referral form.

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the PARIS
    system.

-   SPA staff have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by GP
    staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between PARIS system / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   All the relevant available information on the patient’s medical
        history has been viewable on the PARIS system used by the Single
        Point of Access team.

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient is referred to mental health via the Single Point of Access process</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Information on patient history is missing from referral</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>The SPA team log into their usual system</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>SPA admin searches for patient via NHS number</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td>The PARIS system will request the patient’s relevant sections of the patient’s record that are held in the patients registered GP Practice system via the GP Connect Service</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect and the GP Practice system will check that the community organisation is allowed access to the data and that the patient has not objected to their data being shared.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides all relevant requested sections including:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Current and historic</p></li>
<li><p>Reasons for being given medication</p></li>
<li><p>Anti-depressants that patient is on/been on – past medications</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<p>Plus</p>
<ul>
<li><p>GP Summary</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The PARIS system imports the all information supplied from the GP practice. This data is now available for clinicians to review and maintain.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 9</td>
<td>The medical data retrieved by the SPA team from other sources is manually added to the community system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td colspan="2"><strong>Alternative Path</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 6a</td>
<td><p>Where there are not the appropriate permissions to share the data, GP connect returns an error message saying the information cannot be returned.</p>
<p>The SPA team will retrieve the information using the SCR, Leeds Care Record and direct requests to the GP practice. They will then manually enter the data.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
