---
title: School nurse appointments
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.15.html
summary: "Use case for school nurse appointments"
---

## Use Case Name

School nurse appointments.

## Brief Description

During a child’s school attendance, they will have four mandatory
appointments with the school nurse. These take place at 4-5 years, 10-11
years, 12-13 years and post 16.

Before each of the appointment, the school nurse needs to collect all
information about the child to provide the best possible care to the
child during development.

The School Nurse seeing the child will have full access to the child’s
record. They may request access to the mother’s and father’s GP record.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments/organisations by
    utilising the systems workflow to manage tasks using staff time
    efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- School nurse

- Community System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System.

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

The School Nurse will visit the child at:

-   4-5 years

-   10-11 years

-   12-13 years

-   School leavers – post 16

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the
    community system.

-   School nurses have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by GP
    staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between Community system / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   All the relevant available information on the patient’s medical
        history has been viewable on the community system used by the
        school nurse.

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td><p>Child is seen by school nurse at:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>4-5 years</p></li>
<li><p>10-11 years</p></li>
<li><p>12-13 years</p></li>
<li><p>School leavers – post 16</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>The school nurse logs into their usual system</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>School nurse searches for patient via NHS number</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>The community system will request the patient’s relevant sections of the patient’s record that are held in the patients registered GP Practice system via the GP Connect Service</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td>GP Connect and the GP Practice system will check that the community organisation is allowed access to the data and that the patient has not objected to their data being shared.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides all relevant requested sections including:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
<li><p>GP Encounters (whether mother or child have had any GP appointments and what happened in these)</p></li>
<li><p>Future appointments</p></li>
<li><p>Non-attendance of GP appointments (including cancelations)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>These can indicate safeguarding issues. Particularly if appointment is part of child protection plan.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Conditions</p></li>
<li><p>Referrals</p></li>
<li><p>Diagnosis</p></li>
<li><p>Immunisations</p></li>
<li><p>Alerts (warnings) – certain conditions, safeguarding, domestic abuse</p></li>
<li><p>Any concerns raised by the GP</p></li>
<li><p>Carer/foster care information</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Out of scope</strong> (some of the below may be considered for a future stage)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Letters from GP – referrals that are made</p>
<ul>
<li><p>If cannot see letters, then referrals and reason for referral at minimum</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Letters received back to practice</p>
<ul>
<li><p>E.g. outpatient letters from hospital</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Mental health assessment information – developmental mental information</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The community system imports the all information supplied from the GP practice. This data is now available for clinicians to review and maintain.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The medical data retrieved by the school nurses from other sources is manually added to the community system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td colspan="2"><strong>Alternative Path</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 5a</td>
<td><p>Where there are not the appropriate permissions to share the data, GP connect returns an error message saying the information cannot be returned.</p>
<p>The School nurse will retrieve the information using the SCR, Local Care Record and direct requests to the GP practice. They will then manually enter the data.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
