---
title: Medications reconciliation following admission of patient to Leeds Teaching Hospital
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.16.html
summary: "Use case for medications reconciliation following admission of patient to leeds teaching hospital"
---

## Use case name


## Brief description


## Use case justification


## Primary actors


## Secondary actors


## Triggers


## Preconditions


## Postconditions

-   **On success**

-   **Guaranteed**


## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows






## Use Case Name

Medications reconciliation following admission of patient to Leeds Teaching Hospital.

## Brief Description

Upon admission to the acute hospital, all medications the patient is
currently taking need to be gathered for review in a medication
reconciliation. All current medication will be entered into the MedChart
system to be reviewed by a pharmacist and/or clinician to determine what
the patient needs to continue takin whilst an in patient and what needs
to be discontinued.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in transcription between systems and paper to IT, leading
    to a reduction in errors.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments by utilising the systems
    workflow to manage tasks using staff time efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Pharmacy Technician

- Pharmacist

- Clinician

- MedChart System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- Patient is admitted to Leeds Teaching Hospitals

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the hospital
    system.

-   Hospital staff have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by
    hospital staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between Hospital System(s) / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   All the relevant available information on the patient’s medical
        history has been recorded on the Medchart system.

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient is admitted to the hospital</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Pharmacy technician will log onto MedChart to enter the patient’s record</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>The MedChart system will request the patient’s current medications and allergies that are held in the GP Practice system via the GP Connect Service</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect and the GP Practice system will check that Leeds Teaching Hospitals is allowed access to the data and that the patient has not objected to their data being shared.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides all current medications and allergies</p>
<p>This will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Acute medications</p></li>
<li><p>Current Repeat Medication issues</p></li>
<li><p>Medication marked as prescribed elsewhere</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Including dosage of medications in mg</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><p>Level of reaction</p></li>
<li><p>What reaction occurs</p></li>
<li><p>When allergy was reported</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Other information that would be useful:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Current problems and diagnosis</p></li>
<li><p>Current referrals</p></li>
<li><p>Vaccinations</p></li>
<li><p>Compliance aids</p></li>
<li><p>Preferred pharmacy</p></li>
<li><p>Carer information</p></li>
<li><p>Clinic appointments</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>Medchart imports the all information supplied from the GP practice. This data is now available for clinicians to review and maintain.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The pharmacy technician will gather any additional information they can about the medications the patient is currently taking.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The medical data retrieved by the Pharmacy technicians from other sources is manually added to the MedChart system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 9</td>
<td>The clinician reviews the medication with the patient and makes any required corrections.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td colspan="2"><strong>Alternative Path</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5a</td>
<td><p>Where there are not the appropriate permissions to share the data, GP connect returns an error message saying the information cannot be returned.</p>
<p>The Pharmacy technician will retrieve the information using the SCR, Leeds Care Record and direct requests to the GP practice. They will then manually enter the data.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
