---
title: Out of Hours and Extended hours GP appointments in a federated GP environment
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.17.html
summary: "Use case for out of hours and extended hours gp appointments in a federated gp environment"
---

## Use Case Name

Out of Hours and Extended hours GP appointments in a federated GP environment.

## Brief Description

A GP practice federation works together to provide Out of Hours (OOH)
and Extended Hours (EH) services. When a patient requires an appointment
outside their own GP practices open hours they are directed to another
GP practice in the Federation that provides appointments at those times.

Upon attendance to a GP appointment at a practice the patient is not
registered at, the GP seeing the patient will have full access to the
patient’s GP record ensuring that the patient received the same standard
of care. They will have access to the same information as to if the
patient was seen at their own GP practice.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments/organisations by
    utilising the systems workflow to manage tasks using staff time
    efficiently.

-   Reduction in systems GP needs to have access to.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

-   Better patient experience as they can book an appointment at an
    alternative GP practice and receive the same standard of care.

## Primary Actors

- GP

- GP Practice nurse

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System (appointment) – the system used in the GP practice
where the appointment takes place

- GP Clinical System (registered) – the system used in the GP practice
where the patient is registered

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- Patient attends a GP or nurse appointment at a GP Practice they are not registered at

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the GP
    system.

-   GP staff have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by GP
    staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between GP Systems(s) / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

    -   All the relevant available information on the patient’s medical
        history is viewable on the GP system patient is not registered
        on.

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   The GP will treat the patient based on the information
        available.

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best-case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends GP appointment outside of their registered GP practice</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>The GP logs into their usual GP Practice system (appointment)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>GP searched for patient via NHS number</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>The practices GP Practice system (appointment) will request the patient’s record that is held in the GP Practice system (registered) via the GP Connect Service</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td>GP Connect and the GP Practice system (registered) will check that the GP Practices is allowed access to the data and that the patient has not objected to their data being shared.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System (registered) provides the full patient record.</p>
<p>This will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications (displayed in both date and alphabetical order)</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Acute medications</p></li>
<li><p>Current Repeat Medication issues</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Including issues where patient has paper prescription but has not yet collected</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Medication marked as prescribed elsewhere</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Including dosage of medications in mg</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Past medications</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Repeat medications</p>
<ul>
<li><p>all issues/scripts</p>
<ul>
<li><p>to ensure that gaps in the patient taking the medication can be identified</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Post-dated acute medications</p></li>
<li><p>Future issued of repeat medication where it has been amended</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Level of reaction</p></li>
<li><p>What reaction occurs</p></li>
<li><p>When allergy was reported</p></li>
<li><p>If allegoric to the medication or part of the medication for a certain brand</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Example: colouring, lactose, eggs, gelatine</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Current problems and diagnosis</p></li>
<li><p>Current referrals</p></li>
<li><p>Vaccinations</p></li>
<li><p>Compliance aids</p></li>
<li><p>Preferred pharmacy</p></li>
<li><p>Carer information</p></li>
<li><p>Clinic appointments</p></li>
<li><p>Key warnings and alerts</p></li>
<li><p>Tests</p></li>
<li><p>Investigations</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The GP system (appointment) imports the information supplied from the GP practice (registered). This data is now available for clinicians to view.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The GP uses the information to assist their treatment of the patient</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td colspan="2"><strong>Alternative Path</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 5a</td>
<td><p>Where there are not the appropriate permissions to share the data, GP connect returns an error message saying the information cannot be returned.</p>
<p>The GP treats the patient without access to their GP practice record.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
