---
title: Community Pharmacy Managing Aspects of a Patient’s Care
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.19.html
summary: "Use case for community pharmacy managing aspects of a patient’s care"
---

## Use Case Name

Community Pharmacy Managing Aspects of a Patient’s Care.

## Brief Description

As part of the move to reduce workloads on General Practice certain
aspects of patient care are being moved to community pharmacists. This
may be where a GP has handed an aspect of patient care over to the
community pharmacist or where the community pharmacist has been directly
commissioned to provide the service. To be able to safely treat their
patients the pharmacist requires access to their medical record.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in transcription between systems and paper to IT, leading
    to a reduction in prescribing errors.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments by utilising the systems
    workflow to manage tasks using staff time efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Pharmacist

- Pharmacy System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

Patient attends a community pharmacist for treatment.

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the pharmacy
    system upon attendance.

-   The pharmacist has the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by
    the pharmacist.

-   Electronic Interactions between Pharmacy System / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

    -   The patient’s medical record is made available to the pharmacist

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   The pharmacist will treat the patient based on the information
        available

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends the pharmacy.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>The pharmacist identifies need to establish the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>The pharmacist accesses the pharmacy system to retrieve GP patient record history. The pharmacy system requests the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests GP patient record from the GP Clinical System.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
<li><p>Vaccinations</p></li>
<li><p>Conditions/Problems</p></li>
<li><p>Observations</p></li>
<li><p>Procedures</p></li>
<li><p>Encounters</p></li>
<li><p>Investigations</p></li>
<li><p>Documents</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the GP patient record to the pharmacy system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The pharmacy system presents the GP patient record to the pharmacist.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
