---
title: Community pharmacy giving a vaccination
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.20.html
summary: "Use case for community pharmacy giving a vaccination"
---

## Brief description
A community pharmacist can be asked to give vaccinations either as part of a local service (example: flu vaccination) or as a private service (example: travel vaccinations). There are certain allergies and conditions a pharmacist should check to ensure the vaccination they are giving is safe and appropriate for the patient. These checks can be assisted through access to the patient record. 

## Use case justification
Clinical and administration:
-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the opportunity for errors to occur.
-   Reduction in transcription between systems and paper to IT, leading to a reduction in prescribing errors.
-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting and collating information.
-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually updating IT systems.
-   Reducing the paper flow through departments by utilising the system workflow to manage tasks using staff time efficiently.

Patient-focused:
-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through the reduction of paper-based ‘patient identifiable documents’ in use within departments.
-   Increased patient/clinician time due to reduction in clinician time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the patient.
-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual transcription errors.
-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for information which should already be available to the pharmacist.

## Primary actors
-   Pharmacist
-   Pharmacy system
-   GP Connect
-   GP clinical system

## Secondary actors
-   Patient

## Triggers
-   Patient attends a community pharmacist for a vaccination.

## Preconditions
-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the pharmacy system upon attendance.
-   The pharmacist has the correct/appropriate system access rights.
-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP Connect.
-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed/used by the pharmacist.
-   Electronic interactions between pharmacy system/GP Connect/GP clinical system have been correctly configured.

## Postconditions
-   **On success:**
    - The patient’s medical record is made available to the pharmacist.
-   **Guaranteed:**
    - The pharmacist will treat the patient based on the information available.

## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends the pharmacy.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>The pharmacist identifies need to establish the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>The pharmacist accesses the pharmacy system to retrieve GP patient record history. The pharmacy system requests the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests GP patient record from the GP clinical system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP clinical system provides the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Allergies</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Check if allergic to vaccination ingredients (example: egg)</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Vaccinations</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Check vaccination has not already been given and not expired</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Conditions/Problems</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Check the patient is not immunosuppressed as some vaccinations are unsafe</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the GP patient record to the pharmacy system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The pharmacy system presents the GP patient record to the pharmacist.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The pharmacist uses the information to assist in determining if the vaccination is safe and appropriate.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
