---
title: Midwife views patient record before visiting patient
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.23.html
summary: "Use case for midwife views patient record before visiting patient"
---

## Use case name


## Brief description


## Use case justification


## Primary actors


## Secondary actors


## Triggers


## Preconditions


## Postconditions

-   **On success**

-   **Guaranteed**


## Basic flow with alternative and exception flows






## Use Case Name

Midwife views patient record before visiting patient.

## Brief Description

Before the first appointment for a maternity referral the midwife needs
to collect all information about the patient in order to provide the
best possible care during pregnancy. The Midwife seeing the patient will
have full access to the patient’s GP record ensuring that the patient
receives the best possible standard of care

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, collecting
    and collating information.

-   Reduction in clinical time wasted, away from the patient, manually
    updating IT systems.

-   Reducing the paper flow through departments/organisations by
    utilising the systems workflow to manage tasks using staff time
    efficiently.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Increased patient safety due to the reduction in manual
    transcription errors.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Midwife

- Maternity Clinical System

- GP Connect

- GP Clinical System.

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- Patient self refers /is referred to the Maternity clinic after becoming pregnant

## Pre-Conditions

-   The patient’s details have been verified and entered on the
    maternity system.

-   Maternity staff have the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by GP
    staff.

-   Electronic Interactions between Maternity system / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

-   **Guaranteed:**

    -   All the relevant available information on the patient’s medical
        history has been viewable on the Maternity system used by
        midwives.

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient is referred to the Maternity services (Antenatal)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Patient attends Antenatal appointment with midwife</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>The midwife logs into their usual maternity system</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>Midwife searches for patient via NHS number</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td>The maternity system will request the patient’s current medications and allergies that are held in the patients registered GP Practice system via the GP Connect Service</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect and the GP Practice system will check that the Maternity organisation is allowed access to the data and that the patient has not objected to their data being shared.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides the patients medical record</p>
<p>This will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Acute medications</p></li>
<li><p>Current Repeat Medication issues</p></li>
<li><p>Medication marked as prescribed elsewhere</p></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><p>Current and past problems and diagnosis</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Associated to antenatal e.g. diabetes, HIV</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Current referrals</p></li>
<li><p>Vaccinations</p></li>
<li><p>Compliance aids</p></li>
<li><p>Preferred pharmacy</p></li>
<li><p>Carer information</p></li>
<li><p>Clinic appointments</p></li>
<li><p>Key warnings and alerts</p></li>
<li><p>Tests</p></li>
<li><p>Investigations</p></li>
<li><p>Mental Health</p></li>
<li><p>Demographics</p></li>
<li><p>Blood type/group</p></li>
<li><p>Blood abnormalities</p></li>
<li><p>Social history (especially risk factors)</p></li>
<li><p>Relevant family history</p></li>
<li><p>Latest pregnancy status</p></li>
<li><p>Confirmed pregnancy test (For majority of women this does not happen, take the patient’s word unless they are very unsure).</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The maternity system imports the all information supplied from the GP practice. This data is now available for clinicians to view.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td colspan="2"><strong>Alternative Path</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6a</td>
<td><p>Where there are not the appropriate permissions to share the data, GP connect returns an error message saying the information cannot be returned.</p>
<p>The Midwife will manage their patient based on the information they have available.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
