---
title: Dentist reviews the GP record when they treat a patient
keywords: usecase, structured
tags: [usecase, structured] 
sidebar: accessrecord_structured_sidebar
permalink: accessrecord_usecase_3.9.html
summary: "Use case for dentist reviews the GP record when they treat a patient"
---

## Use Case Name

Dentist reviews the GP record when they treat a patient.

## Brief Description

During an appointment the dentist can review relevant parts of a
patients record to ensure their actions are clinically appropriate.

## Use Case Justification

### Clinical and Administration

-   Access to accurate information at the point of care reducing the
    opportunity for errors to occur.

-   Data can be formatted and filtered by the local system, so the
    clinician is presented the information they need in a suitable
    format.

### Patient Focused

-   Security of patient information is maintained and improved through
    the reduction of paper-based “Patient Identifiable Documents” in use
    within departments.

-   Increased patient / clinician time due to reduction in clinician
    time spent collecting and transcribing information away from the
    patient.

-   Better patient experience as they are not being asked for
    information which should already be available to the clinician.

## Primary Actors

- Dentist

- Dental System.

- GP Connect.

- GP Clinical System.

## Secondary Actors

- Patient

## Triggers

- The patient attending a dental appointment

## Pre-Conditions

-   The dentist has the correct / appropriate system access rights.

-   The patient’s GP has agreed to share patient information via GP
    Connect.

-   The patient allows this shared information to be viewed / used by
    the dentist.

-   Electronic Interactions between dental system / GP Connect / GP
    Clinical System have been correctly configured.

## Post Conditions

-   **On Success:**

    -   The dentist can view the GP patient’s record and use it to
        assist in making clinical decision.

-   **Guaranteed:**

## Basic Flow with Alternative and Exception Flows

*{The basic flow is the best-case scenario (i.e. the happy path) of what
should happen in the use case if all the conditions are met. Describe
other allowed variations of the basic flow. Are the any alternate routes
that can be taken? Describe Error Conditions or what happens when a
failure occurs in the flow}*

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="width:10%">Step</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 1</td>
<td>Patient attends a dental appointment</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 2</td>
<td>Clinician identifies need to review relevant parts of the patient’s medication history.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 3</td>
<td>Clinician accesses the dental system to retrieve GP patient record history. The dental system requests the relevant parts of the GP patient record from GP Connect.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 4</td>
<td>GP Connect requests the relevant parts of the GP patient record from the GP Clinical System.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 5</td>
<td><p>GP Clinical System provides the relevant parts of the GP patient record to GP Connect.</p>
<p>The GP patient record will include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Medications</p></li>
<li><p>Allergies</p></li>
<li><p>Relevant conditions (for example heart conditions)</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 6</td>
<td>GP Connect presents the relevant parts of the GP patient record to the dental system.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Step 7</td>
<td>The dental system formats and filters the patient record so that the relevant information is clearly presented to the dentist.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Step 8</td>
<td>The dentist uses of the information to support their treatment of the patient.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
