---
title: GP Connect 0.5.1 release notes
keywords: GP Connect, release notes
tags: [release]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: overview_release_notes_0_5_1.html
summary: "GP Connect 0.5.1 released on -- Nov 2018"
toc: false
---

## Introduction ##

{% include custominfocallout.html content="**Note:** Release 0.5.1 does not contain any changes to the provider requirements." type="info" %}

The GP Connect 0.5.1 release provides more information to better understand the variance in provider systems. Banner messages have been extracted to help consumers better understand the data being returned.

The release also contains some general specification uplifts and improvements.

Please see below for further details.

## 0.5.1 changes ##

### Core specification

- [System topologies](integration_system_topologies.html)
  - Improve clarity of system topologies page.

- [Glossary](overview_glossary.html)
  - Moved page under the *Help and support* menu item.

- *Tags* and *External Links* menu items
  - Moved under the *Help and support* menu item.

- [General API guidance](development_fhir_api_guidance.html#wire-format-representations)
  - Added a note for consumers regarding choice of JSON or XML as serialisation format
  - Also the same note to [Getting started](overview_engage.html) and [FHIR&reg; library guidance](development_fhir_open_source_guidance.html) pages.

- [Cross Organisation Audit & Provenance](integration_cross_organisation_audit_and_provenance.html)
  - Added additional information around the requirements for the FHIR&reg resources within the JWT to conform to the GP Connect profiled FHIR&reg resources. Also included information around a known issue which consumers need to build to in order for the API to function correctly.

  
  
### Access Record HTML

- New page added describing [provider system variance](accessrecord_provider_variance.html)

- General look-and-feel formatting across all pages
  - All references to Stage 2 roadmap delivery items have been removed, including:
    - Investigations
    - Patient Details
    - Warnings
    - Key Indicators
    - Current Recalls

- [Retrieve a care record section](accessrecord_use_case_retrieve_a_care_record_section.html)
  - Added additional information to the `Payload Response Body` section around the variance in the returned bundle `type` element value from the different suppliers.
  - Added additional guidance around PDS Trace status and Active patients.
  
- [HTML Implementation Guide](accessrecord_development_html_implementation_guide.html)
  - Added guidance for use of header tags for Access Record HTML.
  - Default date range information updated to cover all scenarios (if only start or end date).
  - Added guidance for the format of HTML view sections and subsections.
  - Section exclusion banner section added for clarity.

- [Problems and Issues](accessrecord_view_problems.html)
  - Broken links fixed.

- [Medications](accessrecord_view_medications.html)
  - Added additional guidance on Discontinued/Cancelled/Naturally ended Medications [Medications](accessrecord_view_medications.html#discontinuedcancellednaturally-endded-medications).  
  
- [Summary](accessrecord_summary.html)
  - Warning added to explicitly state that the Encounter section on the Summary page is only the First 3 Encounters.
  
- Changes made across all HTML view pages:
  - Business rules added for each Principal system provider where applicable.
  - All broken links addressed.
  - Added Clinical narrative sections.
 
 
