---
title: GP Connect 0.6.0-deprecated Release Notes
keywords: GP Connect, release notes
tags: [release]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: overview_release_notes_0_6_0.html
summary: "Release notes for the GP Connect 0.6.0 now deprecated"
toc: false
---

### Appointment management changes - formally Appointment Management 1.0.0-rc.2 (Released: 13/10/2017)

  ***Specification Updates***
  - [Appointment Management](appointments.html), [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html), [Operation Guidance](development_fhir_operation_guidance.html) - Changed to the InteractionId for "Search for free slots" to reflect move to restful endpoint instead of operation.
  - [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html#search-parameters) - Updated formatting of search for free slots page and added clarification around the use of start and end parameters.
  - [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html#payload-request-body) - Added guidance around use of bookingOrganization and creation dateTime extension within appointment resource.
  - [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html#search-parameters) - Added `disposition` and `service-id` search parameters for urgent care use cases.
  - [Appointments - Consumer Sessions Illustrated](appointments_consumer_sessions.html), [Spine Integration Illustrated](integration_illustrated.html) - Added pages to highlight the sequence of interactions required to perform common business processes using the GP Connect API.
  
  ***Profile Updates***
  - [gpconnect-appointment-1](https://fhir.nhs.uk/StructureDefinition/gpconnect-appointment-1) - Added `bookingOrganization` extension and `created` extension within appointment resource profile.

### Foundations changes - formally GP Connect 1.0.0-rc.3 (Released: 06/10/2017)
- [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html#payload-request-body) - Additional fields in patient profile which are marked with Must-Support flag 
- [Foundations Design](foundations_design.html#definition-of-organisation-and-location-entities) - Added design decision to clarify how GP practice organisations and practice sites are represented in the FHIR Organization and Location resources.
- [Foundation Resources](datalibraryfoundation.html#register-a-patient), [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html#payload-response-body) - Changed "Register a patient" response to use "gpconnect-searchset-bundle-1" profiled bundle resource rather than the "gpconnect-registerpatient-bundle-1" profiled bundle resource.
- [Register a Patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html#payload-response-body) - registrationStatus extension element has been removed. Active status can be indicated through Patient.active element.
- [Find a patient](foundations_use_case_find_a_patient.html), [Read a patient](foundations_use_case_read_a_patient.html), [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) - Update patient resource examples to conform to structured definition.
- [Find a Location]() - the API Use Case for "Find a Location" has been removed from the specification
- [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) - Added guidance on Register patient around consumer providing and storage expectaions for patient telecom and address information.

### Foundations changes - formally GP Connect 1.0.0-rc.2 (Released: 08/09/2017)
- Updated the system identifier uri's for Patient (https://fhir.nhs.uk/Id/nhs-number), Practitioner (https://fhir.nhs.uk/Id/sds-user-id), Organization (https://fhir.nhs.uk/Id/ods-organization-code) and Location (https://fhir.nhs.uk/Id/ods-site-code), this affects all the "Find" foundation API Use Cases. (Pages - development_fhir_operation_guidance.html, foundations_design.html, foundations_use_case_find_a_patient.html, foundations_use_case_find_a_practitioner.html, foundations_use_case_find_an_organisation.html, foundations_use_case_find_a_location.html)
- [Read Organization](foundations_use_case_read_an_organisation.html), [Conformance Profile](foundations_use_case_get_the_fhir_capability_statement.html), [Read Location](foundations_use_case_read_a_location.html), [Register Patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) - Updated examples to conform to Care Connect profile uplifts.
- [Glossary](overview_glossary.html#active-patient) - updated glossary to make definition of Active Patient clear, used in [Find a Patient](foundations_use_case_find_a_patient.html) API Use Case.
- [Register Patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) - Updated register patient example response to include the registration details extension.

### Foundations changes - formally GP Connect 1.0.0-rc.1 (Released: 01/09/2017)
- Updated datalibrary to be capability specific, moving it to reside under the "Development" menu within the capability. This is to allow the Profiled FHIR Resources to be referenced per capability and updated independantly. For foundations we have updated specification to reference FHIR profiles stored on FHIR reference server rather than those on the old DMS capability pack.
- Updated Api Use Case pages to make clear the expectations around the Fhir Resource Metadata Profile element, along with updates to examples to show new profile definitions.
- Added information around what GP Connect considers as an Active Patient and use of Active Patient within the "Find a patient" capability (Page - foundations_use_case_find_a_patient.html, overview_glossary.html).
- Added additional information for "Register Patient" capability around re-activating inactive patients instead of registering new patient each time. (Page - foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html)
- Removed the Practitioner and Organization as mandatory resources within the response bundle for the "Register Patient" interaction (Page - foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html)
- Added clarification around the use of the "registrationDetails" extension for the "Register patient" interaction (Page - foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html)
- Removed ODS-Site-Code as a search parameter and identifier from the Organization resource for "Find Organization" and "Organization Read"

### Foundations changes - formally GP Connect 1.0.0-beta.2 (Released: 11/08/2017)
- Updated example conformance profile to include GP Connect profile information (Page - [Get the FHIR Conformance Statement](foundations_use_case_get_the_fhir_capability_statement.html)).
- Clarified use of [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) API is only to support local-only temporary patient registrations to support federated appointment booking
- Added additional clarification around use of identifiers for all foundation search capabilities (Pages - Find a practitioner, Find a patient, Find an organisation, Find a location).
- Clarity on mandatory data items for [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html#payload-request-body) API
- Moved VRead to out of scope (Pages - [Get the FHIR Conformance Statement, Common API Guidance](foundations_use_case_get_the_fhir_capability_statement.html))
- Added java example code to specification for Read capabilities (Pages - Read a practitioner, Read a patient, Read an organisation, Read a location).
- Updated example code to bring in line with [FHIR Server Root URL format](development_fhir_api_guidance.html#fhir-api-versioning) guidance.
- Updates to [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html) to include latest operation definition XML, and provide clarity on profiles used on response.

### Appointment management changes - formally Appointment Management 1.0.0-rc.1 (Released: 22/09/2017)

  - [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html#payload-request-body), [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html#payload-response-body) - Additional information has been added on how providers should indicate that slots are adjacent and therefore can be used for multi slot appointment booking by consumers.
  - [Design Decisions](appointments_design.html) - API will not provide appointment re-scheduling through a single API interaction.
  - [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html#payload-request-body) - where participants are specified in request body, these must include a actor resource reference.
  - [Amend Appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html#error-handling) - Uplifted error handling guidanace around modification of appointment resource elements.
  - [Amend Appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html#payload-request-body) - Changed specification to clarify which fields may be amended.
  - [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html), [Common API Guidance](development_fhir_api_guidance.html#managing-return-content) - Moved and uplifted guidance on resource state from book appointment to common api guidance.
  - [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html) - Provider will return only details of free slots which have a date/time span fully within the time period specified
  - [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html#error-handling) - Added guidance around providers right to implement business rules to prevent misuse of the appointment booking api.
  - [Amend an appoinment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html) - Clarity on use of PUT verb and the effect on the resultant state of the `Appointment.reason` element.
  - [Search for free slots Use Case](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html), [Appointment Management Resources](datalibraryappointment.html#search-for-free-slots) - Changed "Search for free slots" from a fhir operation to restful call.

### Appointment management changes - formally Appointment Management 1.0.0-beta.2 (Released: 08/09/2017)

  - Removed practitioner participant as a mandatory element within the appointment resource (Page - Book an appointment).
  - Added location participant as a mandatory element within the appointment resource (Page - Book an appointment).
  - Updated datalibrary to be capability specific, moving it to reside under the "Development" menu within the capability. This is to allow the Profiled FHIR Resources to be referenced per capability and updated independantly. For Appointment Management we have updated specification to reference FHIR profiles stored on FHIR reference server rather than those on the old DMS capability pack.
  - Updated book appointment with guidance on use of the comment and description elements within the resource.
  - Updated search prefixes listed on "Retrieve a patient's appointments" page, within Appointment Management API Use Case section, to align with common API guidance, removed "ne" search prefix and added the "eq" search prefix. Also updated the link to the Common API Guidance page to directly link to the search section.
  - Corrected examples on API Use Cases pages to include FHIR Resource Profile in the returned FHIR resources.
  - Added clarification on the expected response when the [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html) API use case does not return any free slots for the requested time period.
  - Updated API Use Case pages to make clear the expectations around the FHIR Resource Metadata Profile element, along with updates to examples to show new profile definitions.
  - Added clarification around GP Connect "FHIR Resource Profile" and "Metadata Profile" requirements on the request/consumer side of the [Book an Appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.htm), [Amend  an Appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html) and [Cancel an appointment](appointments_use_case_cancel_an_appointment.html) API use cases. 
  - Added clarification on the expected response content for the [Retrieve a Patient's Appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html) API use case.
  - Additional detail on error conditions for [Read an appointment](appointments_use_case_read_an_appointment.html)
  - [Cancel an appointment](appointments_use_case_cancel_an_appointment.html) API use case associated with cancel an appointment interaction
  - [Book an appointment](development_fhir_api_guidance.html#create-resource) emphasised requirement for provider to return Location header describing details of the newly created resource.
  - [Retrieve a patient's appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html#payload-response-body) includes guidance on what data items should be returned where date range parameters are ommitted in the request querystring.
  - [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html) - updated identifier system within examples to match identifiers within new fhir profiles
  - Added [design decision](appointments_design.html) to clarify responsibilities for consumer, SSP and provider in an implementation which provides a federated appointment management capability. 
  - [Amend Appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html), [Book Appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html), [Cancel Appointment](appointments_use_case_cancel_an_appointment.html), [Read Appointment](appointments_use_case_read_an_appointment.html), [Retrieve a patiens appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html), [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html) - Added C# and Java code examples for all the appointment management API Use Cases.
  - [Book and appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html#consumer) - Added clarification around the prerequisites, indicating that the consumer should have performed a "Find a patient" request to obtain the patient logical identifier on the fhir server.
  - [Amend Appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html), [Book Appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html), [Cancel Appointment](appointments_use_case_cancel_an_appointment.html), [Read Appointment](appointments_use_case_read_an_appointment.html), [Retrieve a patiens appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html), [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html) - Uplifted examples to use correct urls and elements.

