---
title: GP Connect 1.1.1 release notes
keywords: GP Connect, release notes
tags: [release]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: overview_release_notes_1_1_1.html
summary: "GP Connect 1.1.1 released on 11 May 2018"
toc: false
---

## Introduction ##

The GP Connect 1.1.1 release contains some enhancements to wording and clearer guidance. There are some changes to requirements around security and standards.

Please see below for further details.

## 1.1.1 changes ##

### Core specification

- [FHIR API guidance](development_fhir_api_guidance.html)
  - Changed guidance around the "display" field on "Reference" elements within resources to align with what providers have implement and what has been tested.

- [Security guidance](development_api_security_guidance.html)
  - Changed security requirements as the protocols "TLS v1.0" and "v1.1" have been deprecated. Ciphers "AES256+SHA" and "AES128+SHA" have also been deprecated. Requirements now say to use TLS 1.2 and the remaining allowed ciphers.
  - Add links to referenced external policy documents.

- [Specification versioning](design_product_versioning.html)
  - Added distinction between substantive and unsubstantive breaking changes and effect on the version number standard.
  - Updated the Associated technical artefacts section with 'Interactive API documentation' and 'FHIR profiles'.

- [System topologies](integration_system_topologies.html)
  - Improve clarity of system topologies page.

- [Spine Directory Service (SDS)](integration_spine_directory_service.html)
  - Added link to code examples
  
- [Resource guidance](development_fhir_resource_guidance.html)
  - Added a `Genreal element guidance` section with guidance on how the `address` elements within FHIR resources should be populated.
  - Moved the Must-Support requiremnets wording from the general API guidance to this page and enhanced the requirements around population of optional fields to make it more clear around the GP Connect expectations of consumers and providers.
  
- [Glossary](overview_glossary.html)
  - Moved page under the *Help and support* menu item

- *Tags* and *External Links* menu items
  - Moved under the *Help and support* menu item

### Foundations

- [Get the FHIR CapabilityStatement](foundations_use_case_get_the_fhir_capability_statement.html)
  - Updated example to be JSON
  
- [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html)
  - Updated guidance on the requirements for population of patients preferred branch surgery by consumers and providers.

- [Foundations](foundations.html)
  - Added link to consumer code examples
  
### Appointment Management

- [Appointment Management](appointments.html)
  - Added link to consumer code examples

- [Appointment Management FHIR resources](datalibraryappointment.html)
  - Added a diagram to show the links between resources used within the appointment management capability.
  
- [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html)
  - Updated error handling guidance to outline the expected error response when a slot is no longer available at the point of booking the appointment.
  - Added requirement for providers and consumers around the use of the `Appointment.reason` element within appointment resource

- [Read an appointment](appointments_use_case_read_an_appointment.html)
  - Added a requirement that `Appointment.reason` SHALL NOT be included in the returned appointment resource

- [Retrieve a patient's appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html)
  - Added a requirement that `Appointment.reason` SHALL NOT be included in the returned appointment resources
  - Corrected requirement wording around returning appointments in the future, to say `greater than or equal to` rather than just `greater than`
