---
title: GP Connect 1.1.0 release notes
keywords: GP Connect, release notes
tags: [release]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: overview_release_notes_1_1_0.html
summary: "GP Connect 1.1.0 released on 16 Mar 2018"
toc: false
---

## Introduction ##

The GP Connect 1.1.0 release introduces Appointments Availability Management requirements for providing systems.

Please see below for further details.

## 1.1.0 changes ##

### Core specification

- [FHIR API guidance](development_fhir_api_guidance.html)
  - Updated the must support requirements section to indicate that if an element is marked as must support then all sub elements of that element should also be considered must support.

- [Glossary](overview_glossary.html)
  - Updated definition of active patient to include specific wording for the requirement that a patient must have been traced and verified.

- [General API guidance](development_general_api_guidance.html)
    - [Content types](development_general_api_guidance.html#content-types) - Added additional guidance of what to do if no `Accept` header or `_format` parameter is received as part of the request.

- [Frequently asked questions](support_faq.html)
  - Update page and remove out of date questions

- [Spine Directory Services](integration_spine_directory_service.html)
  - Add clarity on where the `Ssp:To` header value is retrieved from

- [Interactive API documentation](system_swagger.html)
  - Add new interactive API documentation page

- [Cross organisation audit and provenance](integration_cross_organisation_audit_and_provenance)
  - Removal of `requested_record` claim from JWT

### Foundations

- [Foundations](foundations.html)
  - The "[Implementation And Testing](foundations.html#implementation-and-testing)" section has been added to indicate the best approach for implementing the foundation capability pack.
  
- [Register a patient](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html)
  - [Payload Response Body](foundations_use_case_register_a_patient.html#payload-response-body) - made clear that the registrationType is required within the registration details extension when created by the provider system as part of the register patient operation.
  - Added wording around expectations for the use of official name within patient resource.
  - Update example with patient's preferred branch surgery.

- [Find a patient](foundations_use_case_find_a_patient.html)
  - Added wording around expectations for the use of official name within patient resource.
  - Added requirement for providers to populate preferred branch surgery within the patient registration details with their preferred GP Practice.
  - Update example with patient's preferred branch surgery.

- [Read a patient](foundations_use_case_read_a_patient.html)
  - Added wording around expectations for the use of official name within patient resource.
  - Update example with patient's preferred branch surgery.
  
### Appointment management

- [Appointment Management](appointments.html)
  - The [Implementation And Testing](appointments.html#implementation-and-testing) section has been added to indicate the best approach for implementing the appointment management capability pack.

- [Clinical scenarios](appointments_clinical_scenarios.html)
  - Clarifications and updates in line with Appointments Availability Management changes

- [IG](appointments_ig.html)
  - Clarifications and updates in line with Appointments Availability Management changes

- [Book an appointment](appointments_use_case_book_an_appointment.html)
  - Added note regarding the inclusion of `patient temporary contact details` for the purposes of the appointment and where to include them in the appointment resource.
  - Added additional guidance around the must-support requirement for the bookingOrganization element within the appointment resource.
  - Uplifted guidance around the use of the resources to transmit relevant data to support the appointment.
  - Uplifted guidance to highlight risk that sending large volumes of data may result in the information being truncated within the providers system.
  - Added guidance around not using the appointment reason element.
  - Added consumer requirements for character limits on appointment description and comment to mitigate risk of truncation of text.

- [Retrieve a patient's appointments](appointments_use_case_retrieve_a_patients_appointments.html)
  - Added additional wording to make clear the expectations around a search where no search prefix is included in the request parameter.
  - Added requirements to restrict the combinations of search parameters that can be used in order to make provider and consumer implementation easier.

- [Amend an appointment](appointments_use_case_amend_an_appointment.html)
  - Added consumer requirement to limit the number of character within appointment reason and comment to mitigate the information being truncated in the provider system.
  - Changed the search prefix requirements for a consumer so that they always have to send two `start` parameters, one with a `le` and one with `ge` prefix to create a date range. If any of the date range is in the past then it will result in the provider returning a meaningful error.

- [Search for free slots](appointments_use_case_search_for_free_slots.html)
  - Updated wording for requirements around new slot filtering and filtering parameters.
  - Add clarity on `Location` resource population.

- [Slot Availability Management](appointments_slotavailabilitymanagement.html)
  - Addition of slot/schedule availability management page with additional requirements for providers.
